---
description: LUMC example
---

# Input for research

## **Video Review as a Catalyst for Research and Practice Improvement**

Building upon the work of van [Vonderen et al. (2014)](https://app.gitbook.com/s/MdMcavmFWyJ3gxr9PXYq/summaries-articles/5.-springboard-for-research), which demonstrated the power of video review to uncover knowledge gaps in stabilization procedures, [Heesters et al. (2023)](https://app.gitbook.com/s/MdMcavmFWyJ3gxr9PXYq/summaries-articles/5.-springboard-for-research) addressed this gap using an observational study using ultrasonography to visualize vocal cords. Here's how their work highlights the research-generating potential of video review:

1. 1.**Identifying the Problem:** Video analysis pinpointed specific areas of neonatal stabilization where knowledge was lacking. These observations became the foundation for a targeted research question: do the vocal cords obstruct non-invasive ventilation when an infant <30 weeks is apneic at birth?
2. 2.**Data-Driven Research Design** Heesters et al. designed their observational study to investigate the identified knowledge gaps. This data collection was directly informed by the insights gleaned from video review.
3. 3.**Actionable Findings:** The study's findings provided concrete evidence about the position of the vocal cords during stabilization at birth. This evidence, rooted in real-world practice observations, became a powerful driver for recommendations to enhance future practice.
4. 4.**Closing the Loop:** The proposed improvements, grounded in the video-supported research, can subsequently be evaluated using the same video review methodology. This creates a continuous cycle of refinement informed by both research and ongoing practice observation.

**Key Takeaway:** This example showcases how video review is not only a tool for immediate practice improvement, but a valuable springboard for research that generates impactful, evidence-based changes in medical care.
