---
description: LUMC example
---

# Development of training programs or educational material

## **Effective Communication: A Multi-Pronged Approach**

1. **Challenge:** Video reviews consistently revealed difficulties in closed-loop communication. Discussions highlighted the need for clear, specific instructions and responses.
2. **Initial Intervention:** Best-practice communication examples were compiled into a video and integrated into the Newborn Life Support (NLS) training for all NICU staff.
3. **Evolving Insights:** Subsequent sessions uncovered additional communication-related themes, including the importance of role assignment and pre-procedure equipment checks.
4. **Structured Solution:** The need for a formalized 'time-out' was recognized. It could promote active participation, clarify roles, and ensure preparedness.
5. **Collaborative Design:** A draft 'time-out' checklist was developed and refined through feedback from medical and nursing staff.
6. **Testing & Evaluation:** [The checklist was tested on video, with the recording evaluated during a review session](https://app.gitbook.com/s/MdMcavmFWyJ3gxr9PXYq/summaries-articles/4.-record-reflect-and-refine). This led to further adjustments before final implementation.

## **Intubation Commands Video: Standardizing Technique**

* **Challenge:** Video reviews exposed inconsistencies in how intubation commands were interpreted, hindering effective teamwork.
* **Solution:** A training video was created, demonstrating precise techniques and movements associated with each command. This was presented to the team to ensure standardized understanding.
* **Outcome:** Subsequent sessions confirmed that this intervention successfully [addressed the issue of command interpretation.](https://app.gitbook.com/s/MdMcavmFWyJ3gxr9PXYq/summaries-articles/4.-record-reflect-and-refine)
